You have to think about what your
subconscious is looking at and why we
can stimulate the same amount of muscle
growth in 70% less time. So your body
automatically knows when you start using
variable resistance that the chance of
injury is much lower.
[music]
Hi, my name is John Jacquish. I'm a
doctor of biomedical engineering which
gives me a unique perspective beyond
what a lot of the influencers say on
social media just because they have a
different background than me. Today I
want to talk about exercise volume and
intensity as they exist on a sliding
scale. However, I want to talk about the
highest intensity
type of training which of course is
variable resistance. So
if you look at this is the X3 Force bar.
This is the one that records force. So
like the power buttons right there. I
want to show you why you can get the
This is important. There was a study
done on X3 comparing it to a like a
standard ACSM strength training program.
What what the ACSM considers their
hypertrophy program. The subjects grew
the same amount of muscle. Both both
groups did in this study. But the people
using X3 spent 70% less time exercising.
Now, let me show you why. So, set up for
the chest press here.
I'm going to be able to go
as hard as I can with this. Now, at the
top, I don't have the recording set up
right now, but you know, I'm holding
maybe 250 out here. This this is not
normally what I use. a little quite a
bit lighter, but just as an example,
because I'd be out of breath if I were
actually doing my real workout. So, here
I am at 250. Here I am at maybe 50. So,
I'm able to do repetitions
that deliver force in accordance to my
biomechanics capabilities. So, I'm seven
times stronger here than I am here.
Therefore, I'm using a lot of weight at
the top. Now, as we go to fatigue, this
is what happens. All of a sudden, I
can't get out here. So, I'm just doing
reps that are shorter.
And as I do that, the reps get shorter
and shorter and shorter until I
basically just can't move anymore. Now,
that means that I'm going to a level of
muscular fatigue
that is far beyond what I could get with
one set because I'm going to fatigue
maybe five or six times in one set. And
that's going to give me a much more
powerful stimulus because I'm exhausting
the muscle in accordance to how it gets
recruited. So if something feels too
heavy, I just come back and then there's
no consequence. I don't drop the weight.
I don't hurt myself. I don't need a
spotter. And then on top of that, you
have to think about what your
subconscious is looking at and why we
can stimulate the same amount of muscle
growth in 70% less time. So your body
automatically knows when you start using
variable resistance that the chance of
injury is much lower because as you
lower that resistance, the chances of
something feeling uncomfortable
basically go to not they're not zero.
You can you can still hurt yourself.
It's still a heavy weight. You can still
let go of it and it can hit you in the
chest. But
assuming you do it correctly and you
don't do a suicide grip, you wrap your
thumb around the bar, you're going to be
able to stimulate far more with far less
time. And also, you don't have to worry
if you went to, you know, went to
failure or not because I think that's
one of the biggest problems with the
exercising community is they just don't
know how to take it all the way and
train to the proper level of fatigue. It
happens automatically with this because
your subconscious realizes you're not
going to get injured doing this or the
chances are really low. So, you recruit
more muscle and you train to a deeper
level of fatigue, guaranteeing growth.
Hope that helps. Leave a comment and
tell me uh what you think. See you on
the next one. If this video helped you,
I want you to subscribe and follow. I'm
going to put out videos on a regular
basis. I think they're going to help a
whole lot of people, especially if
you're one of those people that doesn't
just instantly grow from lifting regular
weights. We've got the answer for you.